Hello everyone and welcome to this QA Agile Fundamentals course. 

If you've ever wondered what Agile is, when and why you should use it, or what some of the Agile frameworks are all about, this course is perfect for you. We start off by jumping into the pure fundamentals of Agile, focusing on its values and principles, history and uses. Next, we move onto Scrum, as it's the most popular Agile framework. And finally, we finish with a few other Agile frameworks, estimation, and how you can monitor progress in an Agile way. 

At the end of each there is a short knowledge check. These are just there to help make sure you've understood the stuff we've covered up until that point, so don't worry too much about them. But if you do struggle with them, you should think about watching those videos again. 

Great, that's it for now. Let's jump straight into Agile Fundamentals.


Have you ever been in a situation where you were asked to do something but the instructions felt kind of vague? Then you tried to do it but ended up failing? Well, one of the agile principles reminds us that the most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face to face conversation. We decided to put this to the test. We invited three people to try their very best to create an origami snapper. The catch was that we didn't show them what a snapper is and we limited our instructions to a simple written list. Let's see how they got on.

All three of them failed. It turns out that even clearly written instructions aren't always enough. Once we showed them what a snapper actually is, gave them instructions that included pictures and let them work together instead of alone, they created one quickly and easily. And this is really the point here; at work, it can be really easy to just fire off an e-mail or text, asking a colleague to do something, but this kind of communication isn't enough and will probably just end up with everyone being frustrated. Agile thinking tells us that rich communication and collaboration allows us to quickly and easily understand what we need to do, and how we need to do it.

About
Author


Making any kind of change to the way we work can be scary so we should always have good reasons for doing so. So, why do you want to work in an Agile way? In this video, we'll discuss some of the reasons organizations around the world have been adopting Agile to give you a benchmark to see how your reasons compare. Stateofagile.com is a great place to start this conversation. They've been publishing annual reports for over a decade and gather feedback from all over the world on people's reasons for adopting Agile ways of working and other Agile rated stuff. Check out the website when you have a moment.

In the most recent report, the top four reasons for adopting Agile were accelerate software delivery with 74%, enhance ability to manage changing priorities with 62%, increase productivity with 51%, and improve business and IT alignment with 50%. There are a bunch of other reasons too and interestingly, these numbers are not stable. For instance, improving team morale went from 28 to 34% while increase productivity went from 55 to 51%. Also, the kind of reasons are pretty varied, from management, to risk, to quality and morale, people are turning to Agile to improve pretty much everything about their working environment. To understand more of this, we've called a resident Agile expert to get her opinion about why organizations are adopting Agile.

"Why Agile? Well, organizations are finding to be competitive in today's market, they need to innovate which means they need to bring out new products relatively more quickly than the competition and that invariably entails them covering new territory and covering new ground and it means that the customer will generally at the outset not know exactly what they want. Today's businesses don't have the luxury of time with technology reducing the barriers to entry. At a much quicker rate, industries across the board are finding that they are being disrupted by smaller companies who are coming to the market with technology that reduces the barriers to entry. So another key benefit of Agile and what they look to Agile to do is to be able to deliver value a lot more quickly. Because Agile is iterative and is incremental, it allows businesses to deliver value a lot more quickly than traditional methods of delivery."

That's it for this video. There are loads of reasons why people around the world are adopting Agile which should give you a lot of confidence in doing so yourself. Even if you adopt Agile ways of working for one specific reason, you'll probably end up improving other areas of the work environment as Agile touches in pretty much every part of it and in the end, we think this is probably the best reason to adopt Agile ways of working.

Hi, guys. In this video, I want to talk about when agile thinking becomes a powerful tool in the complex working environments many people face. To start off, I want to make a distinction between defined and empirical processes. Defined processes follow an exact set of stages and every part of the stage needs to be completed before you can move on. An example of this is waterfall project management. Empirical processes start with a hypothesis, tested and observed results, understand the results, and adapt the process to improve. 

Agile processes are always empirical and this is especially well reflected in agile frameworks like Scrum that emphasize iterative and incremental work with retrospectives built in, so teams and stakeholders can reflect on the work being done. I'll come back to defined and empirical processes in a bit. But next up, I want to introduce you to the Stacey's Process Complexity Model. This model was developed by Ralph D. Stacey and helps to illustrate issues around decision making in organizations. The vertical axis represent agreement with the horizontal axis representing certainty. As you move up the vertical axis, there is less agreement. And as you move right along the horizontal axis, there is less certainty. 

With me so far? The zone within the graph that is both close to agreement and certainty is the simple zone. In this space, everyone understands what the problems are and agree on how they need to go about overcoming them. This is where business as usual sits and there is no need to use an agile framework to start a project or something like that. Although, of course, you can still use an agile mindset here. If there isn't certainty on what the issues are, but there is an agreement on how to deal with it or vice versa, we enter into the complicated zone. This is where a lot of projects sit and any project management method, be it waterfall or agile, can be used here. As we push further out away from both certainty and agreement, we move into the complex space. Here, there is a lot of disagreement about what the issues are or how to deal with them. Agile frameworks like Scrum are great here as they use empirical process control to shorten the feedback loops and react more quickly to a changing situation. 

Finally, at the extreme range of certainty and agreement there is only anarchy and chaos. Here, there is very little knowledge of what's going on with almost no agreement on how to deal with anything. In this zone, frameworks like Lean Startup can be helpful as they shorten feedback loops even more by embracing the idea of minimum viable product, MVP. This allows teams to do the smallest amount of work possible to get feedback and then adjust. So, let's summarize them. In an ideal world, everything would be simple. But it's safe to say that most of the issues organizations are facing are complicated, complex, or even chaotic. If you find yourself in the simple zone, both defined and empirical processes should work just fine. After all, everyone knows what the issues are and what needs to be done to address them. However, the further you push away from the simple zone the more defined processes start to struggle. Defined processes need every part of a stage to be finished and signed off before the work can continue. This limits teams who need to deal with complicated or complex decision making. 

However, empirical processes like Scrum framework really come into their own here. Teams can react quickly to the challenging situations they find themselves in. As they have the trust of the organizations to self-organize, they can complete work in a way that the environment demands. Agile thinking is especially powerful in the chaotic sector. Teams can focus on creating an MVP and failing fast by building, measuring, and learning. Defined processes are only really good at dealing with work in the simple zone, and to a lesser degree in the complicated zones. They become a blocker as decision making becomes complex and are very difficult to use in the chaotic zone. Agile thinking on the other hand, can be used regardless of how far from agreement and certainty teams are because they are empirical by their very nature.




SCRUM 


So scrum is a framework to work in an agile way. Scrum teams are self-organising and cross-functional. They decide who will do the work and how it will be done. 

But how do they organise themselves? It's actually pretty simple. The key thing is that work in a scrum environment is divided between three roles and each role has its own responsibilities. The three roles are: product owner, scrum master, and the development team. In this video, I want to discuss each of these roles and talk a little bit about their responsibilities. I need to talk about some scrum artifacts and events to do this properly. So don't worry if that sounds like jargon right now, I'll explain everything as we go along. 

So let's start with the product owner. This is a single person, not a committee or some kind of group. They are in charge of managing the product backlog. The product backlog is a scrum artifact. And it's basically a list of work that needs to be done. Now it's the product owner's job to understand and engage with the stakeholders to understand what needs to be done and create that backlog, which is then used and pulled into the sprint planning. They also need to prioritise that backlog. This is just making sure that the most important work is at the top of the backlog with the work that's least important at the bottom. And maybe the least important stuff will get done at some point but because it is the least important, it will sit at the bottom of the backlog until the team can around to it. 

During the sprint planning the scrum team will pull as much of the product backlog as they can get done into the sprint backlog, which is just the list of work they're looking to get done by the end of that sprint. So the product backlog has to be well organised and managed by the product owner. To do this, the product owner has to be empowered by the business. It's really important that there is a commitment within the business or the organisation that empowers the product owner to take control of the product backlog and make sure that their team is able to self-organise in the way that they need to. 

Next up I want to talk about the scrum master. So this is a servant-leader who is there to help the entire team achieve the scrum goals and work within scrum. Being a servant-leader means that they lead the team by putting the team first and helping them to adopt the values of scrum. Being a servant-leader means that the main goal of the scrum master is to serve the scrum team and help guide them to be the most effective and efficient team possible. Because of this, it's really important that the scrum master really understand scrum and can help guide the team. 

The scrum master will also support the product owner with their responsibilities in terms of managing the backlog as well as, supporting the development team. You can think of them as a kind of support for the entire team. And they'll often do this by facilitating scrum events like the daily scrum or the sprint review and retrospective. 

Last up we've got the development team. Their responsibilities may seem pretty obvious, I mean, it's in the name. It's worth noting though, that people in the development team aren't necessarily coders or technical people. They could be designers or writers or any role that contributes to the development of the product or service. Development team is just the term we use to describe the role of the people who actually make the things within scrum. 

The development team are the people who are creating the product or service and delivering done increments at the end of each sprint. Now what done looks like is really up to the scrum team as a whole to decide, but it should essential be a usable piece of software or product or service. 

So how do they create this increment? There are two main ways. The first is that they're self-organising, so they choose how they want to work. It's up to them to decide how they'll deliver the increments. So they'll need to have discussions and come to a consensus as a team. So when they take an item from the backlog, they have to look at it, understand it and then be able to really quickly and easily turn that into some kind of workable increment. 

This brings me to the second way they're able to deliver the increment and that is, the development team needs to be a cross-functional team. Basically this means that within the team there are all the skills that are required to deliver that increment. Now this is a really tricky thing because teams which are too large might have loads of different skills but then they'll really struggle to work in a scrum environment because communication channels will become too complex. But teams which are really, really small won't have all those cross-functional skills. 

So the key thing really, is to have smaller teams with people who can do multiple different things. Essentially what you really want to aim for is people who are specialists in a number of areas, often referred to as generalists, rather than owing a single area, because otherwise you're going to have to hire more people and the team will grow too large. Scrum teams are ideally made of six, plus or minus three people, and any more or less, they become ineffective.

So just to summarise the three roles in scrum then. Product owners manage the work to be done. They engage with the stakeholders and they make sure that the product backlog is really well organised. The scrum master supports the entire scrum team and working within the scrum framework and acts as a coach and servant-leader to the entire scrum team. The development team self-organises in a cross-functional way to create and deliver increments for each sprint.


Scrum artifacts are a way of thinking about the work that is being done or needs to be done by a scrum team. The main shared characteristic of scrum artifacts is that they are really, really visible. So all the stakeholders involved in a project can see how work is being done. What has priority and what the outcome of any given sprint will be. There are three artifacts. The product backlog, the sprint backlog, and the increment. 

So lets go through each of them, one at a time. The product backlog is owned by the product owner, and is generally made up of things like epics, user stories, tasks, bugs and other things like that, but essentially these are all things that represent work to be done. 

The ones I'll focus on in this video, are epics and user stories. So epics are large amounts of work that can be broken down into lots of smaller user stories, tasks, et cetera. User stories on the other hand are that smaller piece of work that stands on its own, and in fact the best way to think of these, are as simple stories that tell the development team more about why they need to create a specific product or service. So it really gives them the context they need in order to understand the requirements, but also the flexibility to choose how they go about achieving that story. 

User stories should help a team understand the need for a certain product or service, but exactly what that product or service needs to look like, is still up to the development team. 

Development teams are self organising units. So they need to decide how they will approach any user story and the best way they can solve that need. Next up the sprint backlog which is owned and forecast by the development team during the sprint planning session. They look at the product backlog and say; "All right, we believe we can achieve X, Y and Z, by the end of this sprint. So we'll pull in all those epics or user stories or whatever into the sprint backlog." 

This can obviously be quite difficult and teams tend to get better estimating what work can be pulled into a sprint backlog over time. The important thing is that teams have a way to decide together if a product backlog item is ready to pulled into the sprint backlog. 

The last scrum artifact that I'd like to talk about, is the increment, and this is really quite simple actually. An increment is just all of the work that has been completed during a sprint plus all of the related work that was done in a previous sprint. Work can only be included in an increment though, if it is done, but when is work done? Well work is done when the organisation says it's done, but if this doesn't come from the organisation, then the team agrees that it's done. 

So as a team, you need to create a common understanding of what done means for you, because teams are self organising and everyone is doing different kinds of work, it is really important that teams have that discussion and understand what they believe done looks like. And this is really important for two reasons: Firstly, because a loathsome to deliver the increment at the end of the sprint, and secondly so that they can properly estimate the effort for future work. There are a few general ideas a lot of teams use, to help them define that. Like the acceptance criteria being met, a p.o being signed off or, the audit being signed off. In the end it's up to the scrum team to decide what done looks like. 

That's it for this video. Basically there are three scrum artifacts. The product backlog, sprint backlog and the increment. Each of these has quite a few elements and to be an effective scrum team, you need to master all of them.

SCRUM events
The scrum framework helps us to deliver work in an agile way, and it does this by giving us five events to organise our lives and create a cycle that allows us to work at a consistent rate. The five events are, sprint planning, the daily scrum, the sprint review, the sprint retrospective, and of course, the sprint itself. 

The scrum events are all facilitated by the scrum master, and this is one of their major responsibilities. In this video, we'll go in depth into each of them to help you take what you've learned here and move into a scrum environment. 

So first up, we've got sprint planning. The sprint planning happens at the start of every sprint, and it should probably be about between four and eight hours. Four hours for about a two week's sprint, and a maximum of eight hours for a month long sprint, and of course, sprints really shouldn't be for any longer than that. 

During the sprint planning, the product owner will present the product backlog to the development team and the development team will pull product backlog items from the backlog that they think they can achieve in that sprint. Once they have done this, they'll estimate the effort they need to put into each item, and this effort is represented by things like story points or T-shirt sizes.

I won't go into any detail on these right now, but they'll essentially figure out how much effort they'll spend on each item and once they've got all those items in, they've created their sprint backlog. Once each requirement has been pulled into that sprint backlog, there will also often be a task for individual members within the development team to divide or break up requirements into specific tasks that need to be achieved. 

The scrum team as a whole will then set a sprint goal. This is basically the objective of the sprint. And that goal is really important to just keep everyone focused on what they're trying to achieve for that sprint. 

To keep momentum during the sprint, the scrum team use the second scrum event, the daily scrum. This is a very short time-boxed event. Usually only lasting no more than 15 minutes. The daily scrum is used to make sure that everyone in the development team is up to date with each other, and helps everyone understand the status of the sprint. Normally, every member of the development team will answer three simple questions. What did I do yesterday that helped the development team to meet the sprint goal? What will I do today I order to help us achieve the sprint goal? And, do I have any impediments or blockers that are stopping me from achieving what I need to achieve? 

This conversation allows everyone to quickly understand where the whole team is at. And if anyone needs help, people can jump in, collaborate and support each other. We don't need to use these exact questions. Any will do as long as they allow everyone in the team to be up to date with the sprint progress. It's also very important that the daily scrum isn't thought of as just a progress report. The focus and point of the daily scrum is to synchronise and recommit to the work in line with the sprint goal and to keep the momentum of the sprint. 

Towards the end of the sprint, we go into the third scrum event, the sprint review. In it, the development team will present the increment they have been working on to stakeholders and collaborate on what needs to be done going forward. Like the other sprint events, this is a time-boxed event that should last no more than four hours in a month long sprint. So sprint reviews are really important collaborative events to demo what has been achieved and to help keep everyone who's involved working together. 

At the end of the sprint, we move into the fourth scrum event, the sprint retrospect. During this, the team has the opportunity to really reflect on their past sprint and talk about what worked well and what didn't work well. It should be time-boxed to no more than three hours in a month long sprint. 

This allows the team to focus on their ways of working and collaborate to improve going forward. So all of the lessons learned can be captured at that retrospect potentially but is not necessary that this is written down again. Going back to the agile principles, we don't need comprehensive documentation necessarily, but as long as everyone understands those lessons and can take them forward in whatever way, this is probably enough. 

The scrum team also needs to make a concerted effort to take any lessons learned and discussed in that retro into the next sprint. The retrospective is about continuous process and improvement and we need to take what we've learned into the next sprint planning session. 

The final scrum event we need to talk about is the sprint itself. Sprint contain and consist of the sprint planning, daily scrums, the development work, the sprint review, and the sprint retrospective. The sprint is really the beating heart of scrum and all the scrum events take place in it. In it, the development team will create whatever deliverables they're looking to create or whatever services they're trying to deliver or craft whatever they're trying to do. A sprint is a time-box of one month or less. And while it's typically two to four weeks long, it can be as little as one week. 

So yes, that's our five sprint events which help us to work in an agile way within scrum. We start with sprint planning where we pull product backlog items into the sprint backlog and estimate the effort needed to complete requirements. We use the daily scrum to keep our momentum going everyday and support each other when we face challenges. At the end of the sprint, we present our work to all our stakeholders and collaborate with them in the sprint review. We then use sprint retro to reflect on the past sprint and to see how we can improve our ways of working going forward. All of this happens in an overall time-boxed event, the sprint itself.

About
Author



---

x